# Streamed Multi Node Classifications with iofs

Blackheap also allows for aggregated, streamed classification to a remote TSDB via [iofs](https://github.com/gwdg/iofs). This allows for analysis of multiple nodes. It currently supports any monitoring system that supports Influxdb. Internally, it is used in combinaton with Grafana.

Again, no changes to the binary are required, although some configuration may be required.

## Blackheap and iofs

iofs is a FUSE based tool for measuring I/O requests. It works by remounting a file system, then interjecting any incoming I/O requests. See [the iofs documentation](https://gwdg.github.io/iofs/book/) for more information.

## Setting up iofs

## Creating a performance model
After compiling, the performance model can be generated by running

```
blackheap --file /path/to/the
```

- again, same as in the single node docs
- Only difference: It needs to obviously run on the FUSE

## Setting up Grafana, Influxdb and iofs
- if not already existent: We offer a configured docker compose solution. (LINK)
- Caveats: We currently only support Influxdb 1 with InfluxQL auth
- See iofs docs on how to build it

## Measuring data
1. Create the iofs fuse mount whereever the I/O accesses should be recorded
  - use the following parameter... (especially classification file, influx parameters, outfile...)
2. Start the program whose I/O should be measured.
  - The program may needs further configuration. Any I/O can just be tracked iff the access is done via
    the FUSE mount created by iofs
3. Process the incoming data via Grafana as needed
  - In the future, we will provide premade dashboards for easier onboarding.

## Troubleshooting
- check the out file (TODO cli param). If it doesn't generate any output, the problem is with iofs itself
- if it generates sane output, the problem is with the influx connection
- Check whether the port is open or not via telnet
- Afterwards, connect to the influx container (or server) and try to login locally with the same credentials
- Check whether InfluxQL is activated, not Flex provided by InfluxDB2
- Check whether the DB is created via `SHOW DATABASES;`. Influx doesn't automatically create the database on first
  incoming write
